[ADD] Expenses: reimburse employees doc (#10393)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/expenses/reimburse.rst

===================
Reimburse employees
===================

After an expense report is :ref:`posted to an accounting journal <expenses/post>`, the next step is

> to reimburse the employee. Just like approvals and posting, employees can be reimbursed in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to reimburse the employee. Just like approving and posting expenses, employees can be reimbursed in two ways:
```

> either with cash, check, or direct deposit, :ref:`individually <expenses/reimburse-single>` or
> :ref:`in bulk <expenses/reimburse-bulk>`, or :ref:`reimbursed in a payslip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either with cash, check, or direct deposit (:ref:`individually <expenses/reimburse-single>` or
:ref:`in bulk <expenses/reimburse-bulk>`), or :ref:`reimbursed in a payslip
```

payslip <expenses/reimburse-payslip>`.

Settings
========

Reimbursements can be paid via paycheck, check, cash, or bank transfer. To set up payment options,
first configure the various settings by navigating to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->
Configuration --> Settings`.

To reimburse employees for expenses :ref:`in their paychecks <expenses/reimburse-payslip>`, activate
the :guilabel:`Reimburse in Payslip` option in the :guilabel:`Expenses` section.

Next, set how payments are made in the :guilabel:`Accounting` section. Click the drop-down menu
under :guilabel:`Payment Methods`, and select the desired payment option. Default options include
paying by :guilabel:`Cash`, :guilabel:`Check`, :guilabel:`NACHA`, and others. Leaving this field
blank allows for **all** available payment options to be used.

.. _expenses/reimburse-single:

Reimburse individually
======================

To reimburse an individual expense report, first navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->

> Expense Reports --> Reports To Pay`. All expense reports are presented in a default list view.

Author: I feel like I am going crazy, because I definitely saw that in one of the DB's I was working with! I just rechecked the runbots for today, and my own test DB, and you are correct- I honestly don't know where that came from, except I know I definitely saw it. I feel like I said I saw a ghost =D

Click on the expense report being reimbursed to view the report details.

.. important::
   **ONLY** expense reports with a status of :guilabel:`Posted` can be reimbursed.

Click the :guilabel:`Register Payment` button in the top-left corner of the expense report, and a
:guilabel:`Register Payment` pop-up window appears. Enter the following information in the pop-up
window:

- :guilabel:`Journal`: Select the accounting journal to post the payment to using the drop-down
  menu.
- :guilabel:`Payment Method`: Select how the payment is made using the drop-down menu. The default

>   options are :guilabel:`Manual`, :guilabel:`Checks`, and :guilabel:`NACHA`.

Author: I rechecked with my blank database, and only manual and check are the default options. I actually had to remove NACHA because that's from the Belgian localizations in all our Runbots.

- :guilabel:`Recipient Bank Account`: Select the employee's bank account that the payment is being
  sent to. If the employee has a bank account on file in the :ref:`Private Information tab

>   <employees/private-info>` in the **Employees** app, that bank account populates this field, by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <employees/private-info>` of the **Employees** app, that bank account populates this field, by
```

  default.
- :guilabel:`Amount`: The total amount being reimbursed populates this field, by default. The
  currency, located to the right of the amount field, can be modified using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Payment Date`: Enter the date the payments are issued. The current date populates this
  field by default.
- :guilabel:`Memo`: The text entered in the :doc:`Expense Report Summary
  <../expenses/expense_reports>` field of the expense report populates this field, by default.

.. image:: reimburse/payment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Register Payment pop-up window filled out for an individual expense report
         reimbursement.

When the form is completed, click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button to register the payment, and
reimburse the employee.

.. _expenses/reimburse-bulk:

Reimburse in bulk
=================

To reimburse multiple expense reports at once, navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app --> Expense
Reports --> Reports To Pay` to view all expense reports in a list view. Next, adjust the
:guilabel:`STATUS` filters on the far-left side to only present expense reports with a status of
:guilabel:`POSTED`.

.. tip::

>    Adjusting the :guilabel:`STATUS` filters to only show :guilabel:`POSTED` expense reports is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Adjusting the :guilabel:`STATUS` filters to only show :guilabel:`Posted` expense reports is not
```

   necessary, but removes the step of selecting each individual report in the list.

> Tick the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Employee` to select all the reports in the list. Once ticked,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tick the checkbox next to the :guilabel:`Employee` column title to select all the reports in the list. Once ticked,
```

> the number of selected expense reports appears in a :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the number of selected expense reports appears on a :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button in the
```

> the number of selected expense reports appears on a :guilabel:`(#) Selected` button in the
> top-center of the screen. Additionally, a :guilabel:`Register Payment` smart button also appears, on
> the left-hand side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the number of selected expense reports appears at the top of the page (:guilabel:`(#) Selected`).
Additionally, a :guilabel:`Register Payment` button also appears in the upper-left corner.
```

.. image:: reimburse/multiple-reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Expense reports filtered by the status Posted, making the Register Payment button visible.

Click the :guilabel:`Register Payment` button, and a :guilabel:`Register Payment` pop-up window
appears. Enter the following information in the pop-up window:

> - :guilabel:`Journal`: Select the accounting journal to post the payment to using the drop-down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Journal`: Select the accounting journal to post the payment to, using the drop-down
```

> - :guilabel:`Journal`: Select the accounting journal to post the payment to, using the drop-down

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Journal`: Select the accounting journal the payment should be posted to, using the drop-down
```

  menu.
- :guilabel:`Payment Method`: Select how the payment is made using the drop-down menu. The default

>   options are :guilabel:`Manual`, :guilabel:`Checks`, and :guilabel:`NACHA`.

Reviewer 2: Again, I'm also seeing SEPA Credit Transfer as an option here -- but, perhaps, that's only for BE-based businesses. Still, something to look into during your revisions.

> - :guilabel:`Group Payments`: If multiple expense reports are selected for the same employee, this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Group Payments`: When multiple expense reports are selected for the same employee, this
```

>   option appears. Tick the checkbox to have only *one* payment made per employee, rather than

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  option appears. Tick the checkbox to have only one payment made, rather than
```

  issuing multiple payments to the same employee.
- :guilabel:`Payment Date`: Enter the date the payments are issued. The current date populates this

>   field by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  field, by default.
```

.. image:: reimburse/register.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Register Payment pop-up window filled out.

> When the form is completed, click the :guilabel:`Create Payments` button to register the payments,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the fields on the pop-up window are completed, click the :guilabel:`Create Payments` button to register the payments,
```

and reimburse the employees.

.. _expenses/reimburse-payslip:

Report in next payslip
======================

> If the option to reimburse employees in their payslips is activated in the :guilabel:`Expenses`
> section, payments can be added to their next payslip, instead of issued manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the *Reimburse in Payslip* option is activated on the *Settings* page, payments can be added to their next payslip, instead of issued manually.
```

.. important::
   Reimbursing expenses on payslips can **only** be done individually, on an expense report with a

>    status of :guilabel:`Approved`. Once an expense report has a status of :guilabel:`Posted`, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   status of *Approved*. Once an expense report has a status of *Posted*, the
```

   option to reimburse in the following payslip does **not** appear.

> Navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app --> Expense Reports --> Reports To Pay`, and click on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app --> Expense Reports`, and click on the
```

individual expense report being reimbursed on the following paycheck. Click the :guilabel:`Report in

> Next Payslip` smart button, and the expenses are added to the next payslip issued for that employee.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next Payslip` button, and the expenses are added to the next payslip issued for that employee.
```

Reviewer 2: Do you think it would be beneficial to add that a comment about it being added to their next payslip appears in teh chatter?

.. image:: reimburse/pay-via-payslip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Report in Next Payslip button, visible with an expense report status of Approved.

The status for the expense report remains :guilabel:`Approved`, and does not change to

> :guilabel:`Posted`, and then :guilabel:`Done` until the paycheck is processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Posted` (and then :guilabel:`Done`), until the paycheck is processed.
```

> The status for the expense report remains :guilabel:`Approved`, and does not change to
> :guilabel:`Posted` (and then :guilabel:`Done`), until the paycheck is processed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The status for the expense report remains :guilabel:`Approved`. The status only changes to
:guilabel:`Posted` (and then :guilabel:`Done`) when the paycheck is processed.
```
